---
layout: post
title:  Stat 5, Fall 2021
date:   2021-09-05 14:00:00
image: /assets/img/noah_purifoy.jpeg
caption: Noah Purifoy Outdoor Desert Art Museum
tags:   teaching
---

Welcome!
This page is for my two discussion sections: sections 02A/02C and 02B/02D.
I may use this page periodically to post notes. Unless I tell you to, there is no need to check this frequently.

* Piazza (for most questions):  [link to class piazza](https://piazza.com/uc_santa_cruz/fall2021/stat5/home)
* Email (see note below): shkawano @ ucsc
* My Office Hours:
   - Wednesdays, 6-7PM (remote, in person at by appointment only)
   - In-Person Appointments: [schedule here]((https://calendly.com/shokawano5/office-hours))
   - Thursdays, 11:30AM-12:30PM (always remote)
   - Zoom Info: Meeting ID: 935 8468 0289 // Passcode: 0000 // [Link to meeting](https://ucsc.zoom.us/j/93584680289?pwd=eEg0b2F6aTVBTnBKOGoxNWN0WXphQT09)


### Important Information

**Use Piazza for (most questions)**: Please direct most course-related questions to *Piazza* and NOT to my email.  There are several reasons why we're doing this:  1. If you have a question, other students likely have similar questions, 2. If there is a lot of confusion/questions over a particular topic, I can address it in the discussion section.  

**Email**:  Email should be reserved for personal & logistic questions: quiz grading or missing discussion due to medical issues, etc. If you send me a question that should be on Piazza, I may not answer your email—just warning ya ahead of time!

**Quizzes**: 10% of your grade in Stat 5 is based on quizzes, which take place during discussions. There will be ten quizzes, some of which can be dropped. Your lowest quiz grade will be dropped no matter what. If you do all of the homework, your second lowest will be dropped as well.  I will try to make these quizzes easy & will grade leniently.

**Doing Well**: Most people don't learn statistics (or math) from just reading or listening to lectures. Anything that takes skill is like this; just because you watch a lot of basketball doesn't mean you'll become good at it.  You have to train your intuition, which takes time & repetition! But it's not just about mindless drilling. If you get stuck on a problem, you have to identify what concept you don't quite understand and the practice problems that test that concept.

**Reading the Freedman Book**: JUST MY PERSONAL OPINION.... but if I were you, I would read the summaries of each chapter and read a few examples that you're interested in.  It's much better to spend time solving problems.  I personally find some of the examples in the book boring/repetitive.

### Other Stuff

* Good advice on [how to lose points on an exam in math classes.](http://acritch.com/losemarks/)
* College can be super stressful. I think Meditation is a cool way to maintain your mental (& physical) well-being. [Here's why I do it](https://sho-kawano.github.io/2021/09/27/why-meditate/)
* [Why I'm interested in Stats](https://sho-kawano.github.io/2021/09/08/why-stats/)
